# Further Learning

## Recap

Covered so far are fundamental pillars of algorithms:
- Math
- Search
- Sorting

Many are not used direclty in day to day work as libraries implement them.
However, they must be understood.

## Algorithm Design Techniques

- `Brute Force`: simple and exhaustive technique that evaluates every 
  possible outcome to find the best solution. 
  - example: Linear Search
- `Greedy`: Choose the best option at the current time, without 
  any consideration for the future.  
  - examples (all 3 graph algorithms): 
    - Dijkstra's algorthm
    - Prim's algorithm
    - Kruskal's algorithm
- `Divide and Conquer`: Divide the problem into smaller sub-problems. 
   Each sub-problem is then solved and the partial solutions are recombined
   to determine the overall solution.
   - examples (often represents recursion):
    - Binary Search
    - Quick Sort
    - Merge Sort
    - Tower of Hanoi 
- `Dynamic Programming`: Divide the problem into smaller sub-problems.
   Break it down into smaller but overlapping sub-problems.  Store the result
   and reuse it for hte same sub-problems.  This is called memoization and 
   is an optimization technique that improves the time complexity of your 
   algorithm.
   - examples:
    - Fibonacci numbers
    - Climbing staircase 
- `Backtracking`: Generate all possible solutions.  Check if the solution 
   satisfies all the given constraints and oly then you proceed with generationg
   subsequent solutions.  If the constraints are not satisfied, backtrack 
   and go on a different path to find the solution.
   - example:
    - N-Queens problem

  ## Next Steps

  - Solve some problems, determine their time complexities
    - Examples:
      - Find the greatest common denominator using Euclidian algorithm
      - Find permutations and combinations of a list of numbers
      - Find the longest substring of a given string
      - Knapsack problem

      