# Objects and Arrays in JavaScript 

Terminology refresher: 

- Graph illustrating algorithm performance: https://www.bigocheatsheet.com/

- `O(1)` is `constant time`
- `O(log n)` is `logarithmic time` 
- `O(n)` is `linear time`
- `0(n log n)` is `pseudo-linear time`
- `O(n ^ 2)` is `quadratic time` 
- `O(2 ^ n)` is `exponential time`
- `O(n!)` is `factorial time` 

- good performance
    - `O(1)` `constant time`, regardless of the input the algorithm will execute only once.    
    - `O(log n)` `logarithmic time`. efficient and fast as input size increases, such as binary search. the larger, the more efficient.    
- fair performance
    - `O(n)` `linear time` as input size increases, so does the time complexity also increase.    
- bad performance
    - `O(n log n)` `pseudo-linear time` linear-like behavior, but higher growth rate than linear time complexity.
        - `pseudo-linear` is often a loop within a loop, where the inner loop does not necessarily traverse every node, thus it is 
          a slight improvement over `quadratic time` complexity.
        - many sort and search algorithms as well as graph traversal are pseudo-linear
- poor performance, use caution
    - `O(n^2)` `quadratic time` complexity, this is a loop within a loop.  This is acceptable often, but not optimal.
    - `O(2^n)` `exponential time` complexity, necessary when algorithms must explore all possible permutations (or combinations) of input elements.
    - `O(n!)` `factorial time` complexity.  the number of possibilities grows rapidly with the input size.


## Objects in Big-O

```javascript
const person = {
    firstName: 'jane',
    lastName: 'doe'
}
```

An object is a collection of key-value pairs in JavaScript

- Insert O(1)
- Remove O(1)
- Access O(1)
- Search O(n)
- Object.keys() - O(n)
- Object.values() - O(n)
- Ojbect.entries() - O(n)

## Arrays in Big-O

```javascript
const odd = [1,3,5,7,9];

- Insert / remove at end O(1)
- Insert / remove at beginning O(n)
- Access O(1)
- Search O(n)
- Push / Pop O(1)
- Shift / unshift / concat / slice / splice O(n)
- forEach / map / reduce / filter O(n)
```



